README.md, before:

# High-level PHP binding for libvips 

A high-level interface to the libvips image processing library. This
module builds upon the `vips` extension, see:

https://github.com/jcupitt/php-vips-ext

You'll need to install that first. It's tested on Linux, OS X should work,
Windows would need some work, but should be possible.  

libvips is fast and it can work without needing to have the 
entire image loaded into memory. Programs that use libvips don't
manipulate images directly, instead they create pipelines of image processing
operations starting from a source image. When the end of the pipe is connected
to a destination, the whole pipeline executes at once, streaming the image
in parallel from source to destination in a set of small fragments. 

See the [benchmarks at the official libvips
website](http://www.vips.ecs.soton.ac.uk/index.php?title=Speed_and_Memory_Use).
There's a handy blog post explaining [how libvips opens
files](http://libvips.blogspot.co.uk/2012/06/how-libvips-opens-file.html)
which gives some more background.

### Example

```php
#!/usr/bin/env php
<?php
include 'Image.php';

use Jcupitt\Vips;

$image = Vips\Image::newFromFile($argv[1]);

echo "width = ", $image->width, "\n";

$image = $image->invert();

$image->writeToFile($argv[2]);
?>
```

And run with:

```
$ ./try1.php ~/pics/k2.jpg x.tif
```

See `examples/`.

Almost all methods return a new image for the result, so you can chain them.
For example:

```
$image = $image->more(12)->ifthenelse(255, $image);
```

will make a mask of pixels greater than 12, then use the mask to set pixels to
either 255 or the original image.

You use long, double, array and image as parameters. For example:

```
$image = $image->add(2);
```

to add two to every band element, or:

```
$image = $image->add([1, 2, 3]);
```

to add 1 to the first band, 2 to the second and 3 to the third. Or:

```
$image = $image->add($image2);
```

to add two images. 

Almost all methods can take an optional final argument, an array of options.
For example:

```
$image->writeToFile("fred.jpg", ["Q" => 90]);
```

There are around 300 operations in the library, see the vips docs for an
introduction:

http://www.vips.ecs.soton.ac.uk/supported/current/doc/html/libvips/

### How it works

The `vips` extension defines a simple but ugly way to call any libvips
operation from PHP.  It uses libvips' own introspection facilities
and does not depend on anything else (so no gobject-introspection,
for example). It's a fairly short 1,600 lines of C.

This module is a PHP layer over the ugly `vips` extension that
tries to make a nice interface for programmers. It uses `__call()` and
`__get()` to make all libvips operations appear as methods, and all
libvips properties as properties of the PHP `Vips\Image` class.

### Install

```
$ phpcs src
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/phpunit
$ vendor/bin/phpdoc
```

### imagick

```
$ pecl install imagick
$ php -a
Interactive mode enabled
php > dl('imagick.' . PHP_SHLIB_SUFFIX);
php > $im = new Imagick();
```

Commit message:

add link to php-vips-bench

README.md, after:

# High-level PHP binding for libvips 

A high-level interface to the libvips image processing library. This
module builds upon the `vips` extension, see:

https://github.com/jcupitt/php-vips-ext

You'll need to install that first. It's tested on Linux, OS X should work,
Windows would need some work, but should be possible.  

libvips is fast and it can work without needing to have the 
entire image loaded into memory. Programs that use libvips don't
manipulate images directly, instead they create pipelines of image processing
operations starting from a source image. When the end of the pipe is connected
to a destination, the whole pipeline executes at once, streaming the image
in parallel from source to destination in a set of small fragments. 

See the [benchmarks at the official libvips
website](http://www.vips.ecs.soton.ac.uk/index.php?title=Speed_and_Memory_Use).
There's also a [vips-php-bench](
https://github.com/jcupitt/php-vips-bench) repository with benchmarks against
imagick and gd. 
There's a handy blog post explaining [how libvips opens
files](http://libvips.blogspot.co.uk/2012/06/how-libvips-opens-file.html)
which gives some more background.

### Example

```php
#!/usr/bin/env php
<?php
include 'Image.php';

use Jcupitt\Vips;

$image = Vips\Image::newFromFile($argv[1]);

echo "width = ", $image->width, "\n";

$image = $image->invert();

$image->writeToFile($argv[2]);
?>
```

And run with:

```
$ ./try1.php ~/pics/k2.jpg x.tif
```

See `examples/`.

Almost all methods return a new image for the result, so you can chain them.
For example:

```
$image = $image->more(12)->ifthenelse(255, $image);
```

will make a mask of pixels greater than 12, then use the mask to set pixels to
either 255 or the original image.

You use long, double, array and image as parameters. For example:

```
$image = $image->add(2);
```

to add two to every band element, or:

```
$image = $image->add([1, 2, 3]);
```

to add 1 to the first band, 2 to the second and 3 to the third. Or:

```
$image = $image->add($image2);
```

to add two images. 

Almost all methods can take an optional final argument, an array of options.
For example:

```
$image->writeToFile("fred.jpg", ["Q" => 90]);
```

There are around 300 operations in the library, see the vips docs for an
introduction:

http://www.vips.ecs.soton.ac.uk/supported/current/doc/html/libvips/

### How it works

The `vips` extension defines a simple but ugly way to call any libvips
operation from PHP.  It uses libvips' own introspection facilities
and does not depend on anything else (so no gobject-introspection,
for example). It's a fairly short 1,600 lines of C.

This module is a PHP layer over the ugly `vips` extension that
tries to make a nice interface for programmers. It uses `__call()` and
`__get()` to make all libvips operations appear as methods, and all
libvips properties as properties of the PHP `Vips\Image` class.

### Install

```
$ phpcs src
$ composer install
$ vendor/bin/phpunit
$ vendor/bin/phpdoc
```

### imagick

```
$ pecl install imagick
$ php -a
Interactive mode enabled
php > dl('imagick.' . PHP_SHLIB_SUFFIX);
php > $im = new Imagick();
```
